---
title: Kali Linux in Linode VPS
date: 2025-04-10 00:08:00 +0100
categories: [opsec, vps]
tags: [kali, linode, hosting] 
image: https://res.cloudinary.com/djo6idowf/image/upload/v1744238834/7181e9fc416d5efe46f317221c87a361a381c032385bfba8_bzw62c.png
---
Recently I've been toying with the idea of improving my offensive security setup. Previously, in my everyday learning I would have VirtualBox installed on my host machine and then have a Kali Linux virtual machine hosted inside. For 99% of people and use cases this is fine (if we ignore all the VirtualBox crashes, broken copy pastes, and the other million things that it annoyingly does or doesn't do). For example, participating in capture the flag (CTF) events and learning in simulated labs? Works flawlessly(ish). Where it falls short is when you enter the world of bug bounty and general cyber security research.

# What is Linode?

So, what is Linode? In essence, Linode is a cloud hosting provider that offers Linux-based virtual machines and cloud infrastructure. It's basically Amazon Web Services but simpler and more focused on Linux machines. The main takeaway is that anything hosted on Linode is separate from your own hardware and networking - which is great for a number of reasons that I will get in to.

**Note:** In 2022 Linode was purchased by Akamai Technologies but for the sake of making this as simple as possible, I'm just going to refer to it as Linode.

# Benefits of Using Linode

## Reconnaissance

You can speed up the reconnaissance phase of an engagement. Linode gives you the ability to scale your machines up or down. They have decent bandwidth, and some home internet service providers may throttle your traffic, but cloud hosts are generally able to avoid this. You can also leave your node running 24/7 without having to keep your host machine running (something which I find very annoying). You can even use multiple nodes to do multiple tasks simultaneously, although do bear in mind that this costs more.

## Cost

Cheap and cheerful. Depending on your specification needs Linode is surprisingly cheap. You pay by the hour rather than monthly, so when you're not using a node, you can simply turn it off until you need it. This is possibly the best benefit for using virtual private server (VPS). You can run resources all the time if you wish, but ultimately you have control over them.

## Networking

Using Linode or any VPS allows you to perform security testing or bug bounty without fear of getting your IP blocked. The last thing you want is to upset your household by getting your IP address blocked for a week by Netflix's servers because you were overzealous with a scan. With a VPS you can use an IP that has no connection to your home network and if you happen to get the IP blocked then you can quickly swap to another address while the previous one gets recycled.

## Automation

Linode allows you to use or create StackScripts, which are just deployment scripts. When you deploy a node you can set it up with a custom Bash script that installs and configures software when the node is first deployed. Need to rebuild your Kali Linux installation? No problem, because you can have your StackScript setup to configure your box exactly the way you like it every time it rebuilds. **Note:** When using Linode for the first time I would recommend experimenting with a fresh installation of Kali Linux first without a custom script so you can get a feel for what you may or may not need to configure or install. From my own personal testing, I find that the default configuration is fine if you are just doing scans. However, if you are aiming to use a Kali machine hosted in Linode as your primary testing system then you may want to configure it extensively.

# Setup

## Resources

Resources that I used to get my first Kali node up and running:

[Kali Linux in the Cloud - Take a Kali Instance with you Anywhere](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Oox2hF4SZLU)

[Deploy Kali Linux through the Linode Marketplace - Linode Docs](https://www.linode.com/docs/marketplace-docs/guides/kali-linux/)

## Tips

*   Start with a lower specification, you can always upgrade later. Try not to feel pressured into creating a super powerful node because depending on your use case 2GB and a shared CPU might be adequate
*   Community scripts make the setup a lot easier, much more point and click. They are a subset of the StackScripts that I mentioned earlier, but they are created by community members. If you don't like creating your own scripts, you use someone else's

## My Method

Here is a very rough step-by-step guide on how to set up a Kali Linux box with a GUI on Linode. I have included this because every tutorial that I came across missed steps and I had to combine multiple tutorials worth of knowledge into one to get this functional.

1.  Create an account
2.  _Create Linode_
3.  _Marketplace_ \> _Kali Linux_
4.  Create a VNC username and password
5.  In terms of installing packages, it's completely up to you
6.  Choose a region
7.  Choose a plan
8.  Input a root password
9.  _Create Linode_
    1.  You may need to wait up to 30 minutes for the installation to complete before attempting to setup an SSH tunnel
10.  _Launch LISH Console_
    1.  _Glish_
    2.  Login to command line > `vncserver :1`
    3.  Would you like a view-only password > `n`
11.  `ssh -L 61000:localhost:5901 -N -l <username><ip-written-like-this>.ip.linodeusercontent.com`
12.  _VNC_ \> `localhost:61000`
13.  At this point you have a super bare bones installation of Kali Linux. It's up to you how you want to use it and customize it
14.  Enjoy!

**Note:** If you would like to use Kali CLI only without a GUI, then you can use the following command after you have completed step 7: `ssh <username>@<ip-written-like-this>.ip.linodeusercontent.com`.

# Worth The Effort?

Yes and no. Like I said earlier if you are simply learning offensive security as a hobby and only focusing on simulated lab environments and CTFs - you don't need this. If you are looking to dip your toes into security research and bug bounty, it is probably worth the investment. Could you do bug bounty without using a VPS? Sure, but you will likely have to either limit the types of bugs you test for, use virtual private networks (VPNs) to swap IPs (highly annoying because their IP ranges get blocked by many services), and keep your hardware running for long periods when doing big scans. You have to weigh it up for yourself at the end of the day. What I will say is that I definitely would not advocate using a VPS as a complete replacement for your local Kali system. I think a VPS works best as a suppletory tool that you can pull out as and when you need it and just as easily shut down again.